Environments update (#2777)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/collaborate/environments/dbt-cloud-environments.md

---
title: "dbt Cloud environments"
id: "dbt-cloud-environments"
---

> An environment in dbt Cloud determines how dbt Cloud will execute your project in both the dbt Cloud IDE and scheduled jobs. Critically, in order to execute dbt, environments define three variables:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An environment determines how dbt Cloud will execute your project in both the dbt Cloud IDE and scheduled jobs. Critically, in order to execute dbt, environments define three variables:
```

> 1. The version of dbt Core that will be used to run your project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The version of dbt Core that will be used to run your project.
```

> 2. The warehouse connection information (including the target database/schema settings)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. The warehouse connection information (including the target database/schema settings).
```

3. The version of your code to execute

For users familiar with development on the CLI, each environment is roughly analogous to an entry in your `profiles.yml` file, with some additional information about your repository to ensure the proper version of code is executed. More info on dbt core environments [here](/docs/collaborate/environments/dbt-core-environments.md).

## Types of environments

> In dbt Cloud, there are two types of environments: deployment and development. Deployment environments determine the settings that will be used when jobs created within that environment are executed. Development environments determine the settings that will be used in the dbt Cloud IDE for that particular dbt Cloud Project. Each dbt Cloud project can only have one single development environment, but can have any number of deployment environments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In dbt Cloud, there are two types of environments: deployment and development. Deployment environments determine the settings used when jobs created within that environment are executed. Development environments determine the settings used in the dbt Cloud IDE for that particular dbt Cloud Project. Each dbt Cloud project can only have a single development environment but can have any number of deployment environments.
```

|  | Development Environments | Deployment Environments |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Determines settings for | dbt Cloud IDE | dbt Cloud Job runs |
| How many can I have in my project? | 1 | Any number |

> ## Common Environment Settings

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Common environment settings
```

Reviewer 2: sugg: sentence case (not title case)

> To create a new dbt Cloud environment, navigate to the `Environments` page under the `Deploy` header menu, and click `Create Environment` . There is some commonality in settings between deployment and development environments, and some settings that are specific to each type.

Reviewer 2: since this paragraph is a how-to instruction, suggest moving it to the "Create ...." sections. this can help with discoverability because people are used to procedures having a title that starts with a verb (_doing something_)

Author: since this is a common action regardless of the env type, would another header for `Create an environment` be appropriate?

<aside>

> 🌐 **A note on warehouse connections:** Warehouse connections are set at the Project-level for dbt Cloud accounts, and each Project can have one connection (Snowflake account, Redshift host, Bigquery project, Databricks host etc). Some details of that connection (databases/schemas/etc) can be overridden within the dbt Cloud environment settings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
🌐 **A note on warehouse connections:** Warehouse connections are set at the Project level for dbt Cloud accounts, and each Project can have one connection (Snowflake account, Redshift host, Bigquery project, Databricks host, etc.). Some details of that connection (databases/schemas/etc.) can be overridden within the dbt Cloud environment settings.
```

</aside>

Both development and deployment environments have a section called `General Settings`, which has some basic settings that all environments will define:

| Setting | Example Value | Definition | Accepted Values |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Name | Production  | The environment name  | Any string! |
| Environment Type | Deployment | The type of environment | [Deployment, Development] |

> | dbt Version | 1.4 (latest) | The dbt version used  | Any dbt version in the dropdown |

Reviewer: Is this something that we will have to update with each release or is it an evergreen example? If it's the latter can we remove (latest)?

Author: good question! the `(latest)` tag is only for the most current minor version -- i.e. options for 1.2 (not current) right now are just

- 1.2
- 1.2 (patch prerelease)

I'm good removing the `(latest)` if we think that's clearer

| Custom Branch | dev | Custom Branch name | See below |

**dbt Version Notes**

- dbt Cloud allows users to select any dbt release. At this time, **environments must use a dbt version greater than v1.0.0;** [lower versions are no longer supported](/docs/dbt-versions/upgrade-core-in-cloud).
- If you select a current version with `(latest)` in the name, your environment will automatically install the latest stable version of the minor version selected.

**Custom Branch Behavior**

By default, all environments will use the default branch in your repository (usually the `main` branch) when accessing your dbt code. This is overridable within each dbt Cloud Environment using the `Default to Custom Branch` option. This setting have will have slightly different behavior depending on the environment type:

- **Development**: determines which branch in the dbt Cloud IDE developers create branches from and open PRs against
- **Deployment:** determines the branch is cloned during job executions for each environment.

For more info, check out this [FAQ page on this topic](/docs/faqs/Environments/custom-branch-settings)!

> ## Create a Development Environment

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Create a development environment
```

> After setting the `General Settings`, there’s nothing more that needs to be done on the environments page! In order to make use of the IDE, each developer will need to set up personal development credentials to your warehouse connection in their `Profile Settings`. This allows users to set separate target information, as well as maintain individual credentials to connect to your warehouse via the dbt Cloud IDE.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After setting the `General Settings`, there’s nothing more that needs to be done on the environments page. To use the IDE, each developer will need to set up personal development credentials to your warehouse connection in their `Profile Settings`. This allows users to set separate target information, as well as maintain individual credentials to connect to your warehouse via the dbt Cloud IDE.
```

> ## Create a Deployment Environment

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Create a deployment environment
```

**Semantic Layer**

> For Semantic-Layer eligible customers, the next section of environment settings are the Semantic Layer configurations. [The Semantic Layer setup guide](/docs/use-dbt-semantic-layer/setup-dbt-semantic-layer) has the most up to date setup instructions!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For Semantic Layer-eligible customers, the next section of environment settings is the Semantic Layer configurations. [The Semantic Layer setup guide](/docs/use-dbt-semantic-layer/setup-dbt-semantic-layer) has the most up-to-date setup instructions!
```

<WHCode>

<div warehouse="Postgres">

This section will not appear if you are using Postgres, as all values are inferred from the project's connection.

</div>

<div warehouse="Redshift">

This section will not appear if you are using Redshift, as all values are inferred from the project's connection.

</div>

<div warehouse="Snowflake">

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/collaborate/snowflake-deploy-env-deploy-connection.png" title="Snowflake Deployment Connection Settings"/>

#### Editable fields

- `Role`: Snowflake Role
- `Database`: Target Database

</div>

<div warehouse="Bigquery">

This section will not appear if you are using Bigquery, as all values are inferred from the project's connection.

</div>

<div warehouse="Spark">

This section will not appear if you are using Spark, as all values are inferred from the project's connection.

</div>

<div warehouse="Databricks">

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/collaborate/databricks-deploy-env-deploy-connection.png" title="Databricks Deployment Connection Settings"/>

> This section will not appear if you are using Bigquery, as all values are inferred from the project's connection. The `dataset` will be set in the `Deployment Credentials` section below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section will not appear if you are using BigQuery, as all values are inferred from the project's connection. The `dataset` will be set in the `Deployment Credentials` section below.
```

---

> title: "dbt Cloud Environments"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: "dbt Cloud environments"
```

Reviewer 2: sugg: per [style guide](https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/blob/current/contributing/content-style-guide.md#titles), use sentence case, not title case

Reviewer 2: please review all titles (page titles, headings) in this PR and update to sentence case accordingly

id: "dbt-cloud-environments"
---

> ## dbt Cloud Environments

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: sugg: 
- remove redundancy. duplication of page title

> An **environment** in dbt Cloud determines how dbt Cloud will execute your project in both the dbt Cloud IDE and scheduled jobs. Critically, in order to execute dbt, environments define three variables:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An environment in dbt Cloud determines how dbt Cloud will execute your project in both the dbt Cloud IDE and scheduled jobs. Critically, in order to execute dbt, environments define three variables:
```

Reviewer 2: sugg:
- per [style guide,](https://dbt-labs.slack.com/archives/C02NCQ9483C/p1675104254909489?thread_ts=1674861874.823659&cid=C02NCQ9483C) do not use bold for emphasis

1. The **version of dbt Core** that will be used to run your project
2. The **warehouse connection** information (including the target database/schema settings)
3. The **version of your code** to execute

For users familiar with development on the CLI, each environment is roughly analogous to an entry in your `profiles.yml` file, with some additional information about your repository to ensure the proper version of code is executed. More info on dbt core environments [here](/docs/collaborate/environments/dbt-core-environments.md).

> ### Development vs Deployment Environments

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Types of environments
```

Reviewer 2: sugg:
- concise and does [not use latin abbreviation](https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/blob/current/contributing/content-style-guide.md#latin-abbreviations). shorter so the right sidebar is cleaner

> In dbt Cloud, there are two types of environments: **deployment** and **development. Deployment** environments determine the settings that will be used when jobs created within that environment are executed. Development environments determine the settings that will be used in the dbt Cloud IDE for that particular dbt Cloud Project. Each dbt Cloud project can only have one single development environment, but can have any number of deployment environments.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In dbt Cloud, there are two types of environments: deployment and development. Deployment environments determine the settings that will be used when jobs created within that environment are executed. Development environments determine the settings that will be used in the dbt Cloud IDE for that particular dbt Cloud Project. Each dbt Cloud project can only have one single development environment, but can have any number of deployment environments.
```

Reviewer 2: sugg: per style guide, don't use bold for emphasis

**Custom Branch Behavior**

By default, all environments will use the default branch in your repository (usually the `main` branch) when accessing your dbt code. This is overridable within each dbt Cloud Environment using the `Default to Custom Branch` option. This setting have will have slightly different behavior depending on the environment type:

- **Development**: determines which branch in the dbt Cloud IDE developers create branches from and open PRs against
- **Deployment:** determines the branch is cloned during job executions for each environment.

For more info, check out this [FAQ page on this topic](/docs/faqs/Environments/custom-branch-settings)!

### Creating a Development Environment

After setting the `General Settings`, there’s nothing more that needs to be done on the environments page! In order to make use of the IDE, each developer will need to set up personal development credentials to your warehouse connection in their `Profile Settings`. This allows users to set separate target information, as well as maintain individual credentials to connect to your warehouse via the dbt Cloud IDE.

> ### Creating a Deployment Environment

Reviewer 2: including this ^ section, the right sidebar (page TOC) for this page looks like this:

H2 - dbt Cloud Environments
H3 - Development vs Deployment Environments
H2 - Environment Setup
H3 - Common Environment Settings
H3 - Creating a Development Environment
H3 - Creating a Deployment Environment

suggest removing the second H2, moving some content around, and elevating several headings so the page TOC looks something like this:

H2 - Types of environments
H2 - Common environment settings
H2 - Create a development environment
H2 - Create a deployment environment

for a cleaner and tidier navigation on the right sidebar

Author: radical! This sounds great

**Custom branch behavior**

By default, all environments will use the default branch in your repository (usually the `main` branch) when accessing your dbt code. This is overridable within each dbt Cloud Environment using the **Default to a custom branch** option. This setting have will have slightly different behavior depending on the environment type:

- **Development**: determines which branch in the dbt Cloud IDE developers create branches from and open PRs against
- **Deployment:** determines the branch is cloned during job executions for each environment.

For more info, check out this [FAQ page on this topic](/docs/faqs/Environments/custom-branch-settings)!

## Create a development environment

To create a new dbt Cloud development environment, navigate to **Deploy** -> **Environments** and then click **Create Environment**. Select **Development** as the environment type.

After setting the **General Settings** as above, there’s nothing more that needs to be done on the environments page. Click **Save** to create the environment.

> ### Setting developer credentials

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Set developer credentials
```

Reviewer 2: sugg: 
- shorter titles for the rightbar (page toc)

To use the IDE, each developer will need to set up [personal development credentials](/docs/get-started/develop-in-the-cloud#developer-credentials) to your warehouse connection in their **Profile Settings**. This allows users to set separate target information, as well as maintain individual credentials to connect to your warehouse via the dbt Cloud IDE.

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/refresh-ide/new-environment-fields.png" width="100" height="100" title="Creating a development environment"/>

## Create a deployment environment

To create a new dbt Cloud development environment, navigate to **Deploy** -> **Environments** and then click **Create Environment**. Select **Deployment** as the environment type.

### Semantic Layer

For Semantic Layer-eligible customers, the next section of environment settings is the Semantic Layer configurations. [The Semantic Layer setup guide](/docs/use-dbt-semantic-layer/setup-dbt-semantic-layer) has the most up-to-date setup instructions!

> ### Deployment Connection

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Deployment connection
```

Reviewer 2: sugg: per style guide, sentence case (vs title case) for headings

2. The warehouse connection information (including the target database/schema settings)
3. The version of your code to execute

For users familiar with development on the CLI, each environment is roughly analogous to an entry in your `profiles.yml` file, with some additional information about your repository to ensure the proper version of code is executed. More info on dbt core environments [here](/docs/collaborate/environments/dbt-core-environments.md).

## Types of environments

In dbt Cloud, there are two types of environments: deployment and development. Deployment environments determine the settings used when jobs created within that environment are executed. Development environments determine the settings used in the dbt Cloud IDE for that particular dbt Cloud Project. Each dbt Cloud project can only have a single development environment but can have any number of deployment environments.

|  | Development Environments | Deployment Environments |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Determines settings for | dbt Cloud IDE | dbt Cloud Job runs |
| How many can I have in my project? | 1 | Any number |

## Common environment settings

> Both development and deployment environments have a section called `General Settings`, which has some basic settings that all environments will define:

Reviewer 3: per [style guide](https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/blob/mwong-styleguide-add/contributing/content-style-guide.md#location-of-ui-elements), bolding ui elements

```suggestion
Both development and deployment environments have a section called **General Settings**, which has some basic settings that all environments will define:
```

| Setting | Example Value | Definition | Accepted Values |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Name | Production  | The environment name  | Any string! |
| Environment Type | Deployment | The type of environment | [Deployment, Development] |
| dbt Version | 1.4 (latest) | The dbt version used  | Any dbt version in the dropdown |
| Default to Custom Branch | ☑️ | Determines whether to use a branch other than the repository’s default  | See below |
| Custom Branch | dev | Custom Branch name | See below |

> **dbt Version Notes**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**dbt Version notes**
```

- dbt Cloud allows users to select any dbt release. At this time, **environments must use a dbt version greater than v1.0.0;** [lower versions are no longer supported](/docs/dbt-versions/upgrade-core-in-cloud).
- If you select a current version with `(latest)` in the name, your environment will automatically install the latest stable version of the minor version selected.

> **Custom Branch Behavior**

Reviewer 3: sentence casing per [syle guide](https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/blob/mwong-styleguide-add/contributing/content-style-guide.md#location-of-ui-elements)

```suggestion
**Custom branch behavior**
```

> By default, all environments will use the default branch in your repository (usually the `main` branch) when accessing your dbt code. This is overridable within each dbt Cloud Environment using the `Default to Custom Branch` option. This setting have will have slightly different behavior depending on the environment type:

Reviewer 3: bolding ui elements

```suggestion
By default, all environments will use the default branch in your repository (usually the `main` branch) when accessing your dbt code. This is overridable within each dbt Cloud Environment using the **Default to a custom branch** option. This setting have will have slightly different behavior depending on the environment type:
```

- **Development**: determines which branch in the dbt Cloud IDE developers create branches from and open PRs against
- **Deployment:** determines the branch is cloned during job executions for each environment.

For more info, check out this [FAQ page on this topic](/docs/faqs/Environments/custom-branch-settings)!

## Create a development environment

> To create a new dbt Cloud development environment, navigate to the `Environments` page under the `Deploy` header menu, and click `Create Environment` . Select `Development` as the environemnt type.

Reviewer 3: fixing typo and ui elements

```suggestion
To create a new dbt Cloud development environment, navigate to **Deploy** -> **Environments** and then click **Create Environment**. Select **Development** as the environment type.
```

> After setting the `General Settings` as above, there’s nothing more that needs to be done on the environments page. Click `Save` to create the environment.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After setting the **General Settings** as above, there’s nothing more that needs to be done on the environments page. Click **Save** to create the environment.
```

### Setting developer credentials

> To use the IDE, each developer will need to set up [personal development credentials](/docs/get-started/develop-in-the-cloud#developer-credentials) to your warehouse connection in their `Profile Settings`. This allows users to set separate target information, as well as maintain individual credentials to connect to your warehouse via the dbt Cloud IDE.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To use the IDE, each developer will need to set up [personal development credentials](/docs/get-started/develop-in-the-cloud#developer-credentials) to your warehouse connection in their **Profile Settings**. This allows users to set separate target information, as well as maintain individual credentials to connect to your warehouse via the dbt Cloud IDE.
```

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/refresh-ide/new-environment-fields.png" width="100" height="100" title="Creating a development environment"/>

## Create a deployment environment

> To create a new dbt Cloud development environment, navigate to the `Environments` page under the `Deploy` header menu, and click `Create Environment` . Select `Deployment` as the environemnt type.

Reviewer 3: fixing typo and ui elements

```suggestion
To create a new dbt Cloud development environment, navigate to **Deploy** -> **Environments** and then click **Create Environment**. Select **Deployment** as the environment type.
```

> ### Semantic Layer

Reviewer 3: adding dbt in the header as that's the official name of the product
```suggestion
### dbt Semantic Layer
```

Author: only comment on this one is that i believe the actual environment settings section just reads `Semantic Layer`

Reviewer 3: oh i see! gotcha ok then my bit doesn't make sense 😅

Reviewer 3: i'll resolve the comment then @dave-connors-3

### Deployment Connection

:::info Warehouse Connections

 Warehouse connections are set at the Project level for dbt Cloud accounts, and each Project can have one connection (Snowflake account, Redshift host, Bigquery project, Databricks host, etc.). Some details of that connection (databases/schemas/etc.) can be overridden within this section of the dbt Cloud environment settings.

:::

This section determines the exact location in your warehouse dbt should target when building warehouse objects! This section will look a bit different depending on your warehouse provider.

<WHCode>

<div warehouse="Postgres">

This section will not appear if you are using Postgres, as all values are inferred from the project's connection.

</div>

<div warehouse="Redshift">

This section will not appear if you are using Redshift, as all values are inferred from the project's connection.

</div>

<div warehouse="Snowflake">

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/collaborate/snowflake-deploy-env-deploy-connection.png" title="Snowflake Deployment Connection Settings"/>

#### Editable fields

> - `Role`: Snowflake Role

Reviewer 3: bolding ui elements

```suggestion
- **Role**: Snowflake role
```

> - `Database`: Target Database

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Database**: Target database
```

> - `Warehouse`: Snowflake Warehouse

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Warehouse**: Snowflake warehouse
```

</div>

<div warehouse="Bigquery">

This section will not appear if you are using Bigquery, as all values are inferred from the project's connection.

</div>

<div warehouse="Spark">

This section will not appear if you are using Spark, as all values are inferred from the project's connection.

</div>

<div warehouse="Databricks">

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/collaborate/databricks-deploy-env-deploy-connection.png" title="Databricks Deployment Connection Settings"/>

> This section will not appear if you are using BigQuery, as all values are inferred from the project's connection. The `dataset` will be set in the `Deployment Credentials` section below.

Reviewer 3: @dave-connors-3 it looks like the first sentence ('this section will not appear..') shouldn't be here since this is a databricks tab. is it fine to remove it?

```suggestion
This section will not appear if you are using BigQuery, as all values are inferred from the project's connection. The **dataset** will be set in the [**Deployment credentials**](#deployment-credentials) section below.
```

Reviewer 3: ![Screenshot 2023-02-07 at 10 37 14](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/89008547/217221893-335ec51d-734d-4c6b-ab5b-f66d3236de31.png)

Author: yep, i will double check that!

#### Editable fields

- `Catalog` (optional): [Unity Catalog namespace](/reference/warehouse-setups/databricks-setup.md)

</div>

</WHCode>

> ### Deployment Credentials

Reviewer 3: sentence casing

```suggestion
### Deployment credentials
```

This section allows you to determine the credentials that should be used when connecting to your warehouse. The authentication methods may differ depending on the warehouse and dbt Cloud tier you are on.

<WHCode>

<div warehouse="Postgres">

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/collaborate/postgres-deploy-env-deploy-credentials.png" title="Postgres Deployment Credentials Settings"/>

#### Editable fields

> - `Username`: Postgres username to use (most likely a service account)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Username**: Postgres username to use (most likely a service account)
```

> - `Password`: Postgres password for the listed user

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Password**: Postgres password for the listed user
```

> - `Schema`: Target schema

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Schema**: Target schema
```

</div>

<div warehouse="Redshift">

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/collaborate/postgres-deploy-env-deploy-credentials.png" title="Redshift Deployment Credentials Settings"/>

#### Editable fields

> - `Username`: Redshift username to use (most likely a service account)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Username**: Redshift username to use (most likely a service account)
```

> - `Password`: Redshift password for the listed user

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Password**: Redshift password for the listed user
```

> - `Schema`: Target schema

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Schema**: Target schema
```

</div>

<div warehouse="Snowflake">

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/collaborate/snowflake-deploy-env-deploy-credentials.png" title="Snowflake Deployment Credentials Settings"/>

#### Editable fields

- **Auth Method**: This determines the way dbt connects to your warehouse
  - One of: [`Username & Password`, `Key Pair`]
- If `Username & Password`:
  - `Username`: username to use (most likely a service account)
  - `Password`: password for the listed user
- If `Key Pair`
  - `Username`: username to use (most likely a service account)
  - `Private Key`: value of the Private SSH Key (optional)
  - `Private Key Passphrase`: value of the Private SSH Key Passphrase (optional, only if required)
- `Schema`: Target Schema for this environment

</div>

<div warehouse="Bigquery">

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/collaborate/bigquery-deploy-env-deploy-credentials.png" title="Bigquery Deployment Credentials Settings"/>

#### Editable fields

> - `Dataset`: Target dataset

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Dataset**: Target dataset
```

</div>

<div warehouse="Spark">

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/collaborate/spark-deploy-env-deploy-credentials.png" title="Spark Deployment Credentials Settings"/>

#### Editable fields

> - `Token`: Access Token

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Token**: Access Token
```

> - `Schema`: Target schema

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Schema**: Target schema
```

</div>

<div warehouse="Databricks">

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/collaborate/spark-deploy-env-deploy-credentials.png" title="Databricks Deployment Credentials Settings"/>

#### Editable fields

> - `Token`: Access Token

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Token**: Access token
```

> - `Schema`: Target schema

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Schema**: Target schema
```
